Now, I've got to confess that I'm a very late season Mariners fan.
Having lived most of my life in Washington and having had my heart broken numerous times, I wait till late in the season before I really get on board.
And so, let's see, I guess it was Friday night.
And the eighth inning, I decided it was time to get on board.
I finally turned on the game.
And I figured, you know, one or two innings, how bad could it be?
Turns out I got almost a full baseball game, and after that, it went 15 innings, right?
And we finally won, amazingly.
But I have to admit, I was kind of running out of gas by the time we got to the end.
I mean, it was getting late, you know, and we finally got that run.
And I was thinking about that, just, you know, running out of gas.
And when I was a student in college years ago, I went to a little college up in Alberta, Canada,
And of course, these wide open prairies.
Been out with a friend.
We'd gone driving someplace.
And as college students are want to do, you kind of use all the gas in the tank in some kind of mistaken idea that this is saving money if you don't fill up early.
I don't know what that thought is.
But I was pushing the boundaries of what my gas tank could handle.
And sure enough, a few miles shy of town, we ran out of gas.
And it was late in the day.
And here's the thing about life on the prairies.
You can see a long ways.
And so we're walking toward town.
No, we have a long walk ahead of us looking as it's getting dark, looking at the lights of town.
And we could see the three gas stations in town.
And we got to watch them close.
That is a sad feeling to watch, oh, there goes the lights on that one.
There goes the other one.
Yep, we're really stuck now.
They're all closed.
That's a sad thing when you run out of gas.
Now, we've been going through this series the last few weeks called Long Journey Home.
And we are looking at the journey of the children of Israel from their life of slavery in Egypt, God's deliverance of them from that slavery, and now they're on that journey making their way to a new promised homeland that God has said He's going to give to them.
And we've been looking not just at the stories for their historical value, but also seeing them
some parallels to the Christian life.
And we're not just making that up because throughout the New Testament, you see those parallels, those connections made as well.
And today, we're coming to a story that is kind of about running out of gas, although they didn't need gas, right?
No cars.
I'm sure they would have welcomed a couple buses to help with the journey.
They didn't have that.
But what they did need for going across a wilderness, a desert area, was they need water.
And when you run out of water, you are in as big a trouble.
You're actually in bigger trouble than running out of gas out there on the prairies late at night.
And so today, we're going to take a look at what happened to these very thirsty people when they needed water, but there was none to be had.
And I'm going to warn you in advance, we have a lot of ground to cover, okay?
I think we're going to get through it quicker than the Mariners, completed a baseball game, but we'll see.
Let's take a look at Exodus, chapter 17, the first seven verses.
If my slides will advance.
Are they advancing back there, guys?
There we go.
We'll see if there are more work you might have to help me out this morning.
All the congregation of the people of Israel moved on from the wilderness of sin by stages, according to the commandment of the Lord and camped at Rifadim.
But there was no water for the people to drink.
I think you're going to have to help me out this morning.
Oh, wait, it just woke up.
Therefore, the people quarreled with Moses and said, give us water to drink.
And Moses said to them, why you quarreled with me?
Why do you test the Lord?
But the people thirsted there for water and the people grumbled against Moses and said, why did you bring us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst?
So Moses cried to the Lord, what shall I do with this people?
They are almost ready to stone me.
And the Lord said to Moses, pass on before the people taking with you some of the elders of Israel and taking your hand to staff with which you struck the Nile and go.
Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock and horrib, and you shall strike the rock, and waters shall come out of it, and the people will drink."
And Moses did so in the side of the elders of Israel, and he called the name of the place, Massa and Marabah, because of the quarreling of the people of Israel.
And because they tested the Lord by saying, is the Lord among us or not.
Now it's interesting to take a look at the name that Moses gave to this place.
Masah and Maraba, too bad that most of our English translations simply transliterate the Hebrew.
Because for us as English speakers, that just looks like gibberish.
It doesn't really say anything.
And yet to the Hebrews, these were not nonsense words.
They had real meaning to them.
Oftentimes, when people name places, they come up with things that are maybe descriptive of a unique feature.
Maybe you've been to Twin Falls, Idaho.
You know why it's named that, right?
There's two waterfalls.
Or the little college I went to up in Canada was in a town called Three Hills.
Now, in Alberta, on the prairies, the hills are something you wouldn't need a grading permit to fix around here.
But there, it was a notable enough geographic formation.
They named the town after Three Hills, or squam.
Now, I've heard that squam is an Indian phrase meaning quiet waters.
I've heard people say that it means onions.
I found an article where a tribal linguist says it literally means a place for going to shoot.
So whoever named squim squim back in the day named it something they understood that it said something about the place to them.
Of course, that's the other way that places get named.
It's an experience that someone had there.
Did you know that there's an accident Maryland?
It's called accident because a land speculator accidentally marked the town's boundaries.
Or how about Bug Tussle, Kentucky?
Apparently Bug Tussle had this big problem with wood lights in the hay.
And the workers who had bed down the hay said you had to tussle with the bugs to get a spot to go to sleep.
Or Carefree, Arizona.
That was named by some land developers and they thought that maybe that would attract people to come there for a relaxed lifestyle.
So if you're going to name a spot like this,
where this incredible miracle has happened, where water has come out of a rock, what would you name it?
Well, I'd be tempted to name it something like miracle springs, or maybe wet rock, or gusher valley.
Those all seem like good ideas.
You want to know what Moses chose to name this place in honor of what happened there?
Test and argue.
I just jumped ahead on me there.
Test and argue is the name that he decided to give this place.
That's what stood out to him.
What put this place on the map for Moses was not the incredible miracle of water coming out of a rock.
What put it on the map for Moses was this response the people had when they couldn't find water.
They began to quarrel and argue and test God.
It says that they quarreled with Moses.
They demanded, you got to give us water.
Verse three, it says that they grumbled against Moses.
And that idea of grumble, the Hebrew there has the sense of being permanently stuck in a bad frame of mind.
These people just cannot get out of their frame of mind.
They are stewing in their anger.
And apparently they're getting pretty hot about it because verse four, Moses says to the Lord, they're almost ready to stone me.
I've got a major revolt on my hands.
These people are so upset.
And they even doubted, they even challenged God's presence, verse seven.
Is the Lord among us or not?
After all they've been through, after all they've experienced, when they run into this challenge, their question is, is God even with us?
Does He care?
And I think the reason that those bad attitudes stood out in Moses' mind more than God's miracle is because Moses had come to a place of
genuine faith in God's goodness.
He had no more idea than those people did as to where they were going to get water.
But he had followed where God had led.
He had watched as time and again God had met their need in the most surprising ways.
What really stood out was that these people, after all God had led them through, were still stuck in a rut of unbelief.
Every time they hit what seemed like a dead end, God had provided for them.
They were still collecting manna every morning.
They were still getting quail every night.
They were following this fiery cloud that gave evidence to God's presence going before them.
And yet with thirst setting in, their response is anger, accusation, grumbling, arguing and doubt.
When we get to the New Testament, we discover that the descendants of those ancient people still easily got themselves stuck in doubt whenever problems arose.
Maybe remember the disciples, they get caught in a storm at sea and they run to Jesus.
They woke him up shouting, Lord, save us.
We're going to drown.
In Jesus response, why are you afraid?
You have so little faith.
Then he got up and rebuked the wind and waves, and suddenly there was great calm.
Or, again on the water, you have that story about Peter, right?
When Peter tries walking on water at Jesus' invitation.
But then we're told that Peter saw the strong winds and the waves.
He was terrified.
He began to sink.
Save me, Lord," he shouted.
I'm going to die.
Was Jesus' response?
He reached out, grabbed him, and said, you have so little faith.
Why did you doubt me?
Peter, I'm the one who invited you out of the boat.
Do you think I invited you out of the boat just to let you drown?
Where is your faith?
Later we find the disciples in a conversation with Jesus talking about bread.
We talked about this a bit last week and Jesus uses bread as a metaphor and yet the disciples mistake his words for literal bread and they didn't have any actual bread with them.
So here's what happened.
At this, they began to argue with each other because they hadn't brought any bread.
Jesus knew what they were saying, so he said, you have so little faith, why are you arguing with each other about having no bread?
Don't you understand even yet?
Don't you remember the 5,000 I fed with five loaves, the baskets of leftovers you picked up, or the 4,000 I fed with seven loaves and the large baskets of leftover you picked up?
You've had experience with me.
Why would you be arguing about bread now?
I wish I could say with confidence that we have progressed farther than they.
I'm not so sure we have.
I don't know about you, but I can think of times in my life where I've run into adversity.
And despite the ways that I've seen God lead and provide, my first response has not been a response of faith.
It hasn't been a response of trust.
It has been that response of grumbling, of arguing, of doubting, of thrashing around trying to fix the problem on my own.
But I don't want to spend our time this morning so much on the doubters and grumblers.
I want to spend time thinking about the rock.
And that's because the Apostle Paul saw a very interesting picture hidden in that rock.
This comes out of 1 Corinthians, chapter 10, the first four verses.
Paul says, I do not want you to be unaware brothers that our fathers were all under the cloud, right?
He's talking about the children of Israel now being led by that fiery cloud, all passed through the sea, the dividing of the red sea, all were baptized into Moses, in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food and all drank the same spiritual drink for
they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them and the rock was Christ.
Now in this passage, Paul goes full throttle in seeing the connections between Israel's physical journey following Moses through the wilderness and the spiritual journey we're on as followers of Jesus.
And the reason he brings us up, his intent was to spur the believers at Corinth to
act on what they said they believed, to live it out.
You wanted them to know that their faith shouldn't simply be a doctrinal statement, but it should be an engagement of the whole person.
Let me give you a little bit of context to this.
You need to back up just prior to this to chapter 9, okay, a section just before that, verses 25 through 27.
He says, every athlete exercises self-control in all things.
They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable.
So I do not run aimlessly.
I do not box as one beating the air, but I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest, after preaching to others, I myself should be disqualified.
Paul says, I have a goal in mind.
It's not just an earthly goal.
It's not just getting a job promotion or a bigger house.
He says, I'm looking forward to a heavenly reward to hear Jesus say, well done.
You have run the race well.
He says, because of that, I don't just flail about.
I'm more like a disciplined athlete.
The things that I do are aiming toward that goal.
He also recognizes that he's living in a wilderness kind of world.
There are all sorts of temptations and distractions.
lesser goals that could take him off course.
His faith demands action.
He says choices have to be made.
Sacrifices are called for.
Discipline is required.
The specific issue that led Paul to this whole discussion has been a debate within the Corinthian church over eating food that had been ritualistically offered to idols.
And actually it appears from some earlier writing here in Corinthians that some of this controversial dining was happening inside of pagan temples.
So it wasn't just that people were picking up things at the supermarket and the shopkeeper mentions off-handedly that the food had been ceremonially offered to his shop's gods or to his favorite Greco-Roman deity.
Rather, these were Christians being invited to religious feasts
inside pagan temples.
And perhaps there were some of them that could do that with a clear conscience because they knew that there was no reality to the supposed gods being honored.
But Paul says there are others for whom the worship of those idols have been a lifestyle of religious bondage.
Spiritually going back to those places is going back to Egypt.
It is going back to the things that enslaved them.
And to see fellow Christians entering into those practices was a huge stumbling block.
It was this siren call back to spiritually dangerous places.
And so with those realities in mind, Paul points his readers back to Israel's journey in the wilderness.
Just as the Corinthian believers had all been baptized into Christ, this public profession of faith, this launching of their journey with Christ, he says, so too had those ancient Israelites experienced a type of baptism, not a Jesus baptism, but a Moses baptism in crossing the Red Sea.
But there were fusals to trust God, to walk in faith.
That's what had been their undoing.
And we've seen this habit, we've seen them
often looking back longingly to the delicacies of Egypt, looking back to an old way of life when things get difficult and even threatening to go back.
We should just get a new leader and we should go back to Egypt.
It was better there to live as slaves.
And one particularly ominous event when the people weren't sure what was up with Moses, we're gonna come to this story shortly, but we find that they actually constructed a replica
of one of the Egyptian gods, a golden calf idol, and they didn't just replicate the idol, they replicated the boisterous parting that went along with it.
They had a drunken riot complete with dancing and sacrifices to the calf idol.
And Paul alludes to that here in 1 Corinthians, chapter 10, verse 7.
He says, do not be idolaters, as some of them were.
As it is written, and now he quotes directly out of Exodus 32, 6,
The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.
That is referring to them entering into these religious orgies that they had seen in Egypt that now they are participating in.
And you can see the connections.
Paul is saying to these Corinthian believers who are being tempted to go back and join into some of the idolatrous practices they have come out of.
He says, don't be like them.
That was their undoing.
be the athlete who is disciplined and focused on the goal.
The end result of returning to such false worship for Israel was that the people fell under God's judgment.
He says, going back to those old ways, you're going to make a shipwreck of your faith.
In worshiping the calf, they made a mockery of the one who had truly delivered them, and Paul uses those dark images to warn the Corinthians away from falling back into their own forms of idolatry.
Now, apologies for taking the detour, but I want you to understand the context that Paul was speaking into as he makes these connections between Israel's wilderness trek and the controversial lifestyles of some believers and Corinth.
It's in that context that he talks about God's provision for his people.
And specifically he talks about this miracle of water from a rock.
That's how this all begins to tie together.
And did you notice he talked about the spiritual rock that followed them?
What was that all about?
Well, there are actually two episodes involving water from a rock.
You probably know this.
The first,
happened early in their travels.
That's the one we just read about this morning.
And in that instance, God told Moses that he should strike the rock and water would come.
The second comes near the end of the wilderness journey.
And once again, they have no water.
The people are upset.
The people are grumbling.
We find that this is a recurring theme in their lives.
And once again, Moses is told that water is going to come from a rock.
But the way he's going to get it
is gonna be different this time.
The first time God said strike the rock, the second time Moses has told simply to speak to the rock.
But we find out in that story that Moses was human.
And after all they've been through with these people, and here they are grumbling once again, Moses is just livid.
He has had it with these people, with their constant doubting, their grumbling, their rebellion, and in his anger,
Rather than doing what he was told to do, which was to speak to the rock, he strikes the rock.
In fact, he hits it twice.
And water does come.
God provides for his people, but Moses is told by God that because of his disobedience, he would not be permitted to enter into the promised land.
Which seems like a pretty heavy penalty for one flash of anger.
But we're gonna talk more about that in just a bit.
Maybe you've heard about the famous sailing stones of racetrack Playa in Death Valley.
For a lot of years, people have been mystified by these rocks that seemingly, magically, move by themselves.
You can see the tracks they leave where they're going, but no one ever saw the rocks move.
And nobody knew really what was going on.
And they didn't actually figure it out until 2014 when scientists actually put GPS trackers on the rocks
and use time-lapse photography to figure out what was going on.
That's a picture of Richard Norris.
He's from the Scripps Institute of Oceanography, why the Institute of Oceanography is in Death Valley, we'll never know.
But he's one of the researchers who made the discovery.
And on the Scripps website, he explains what's going on with these rocks and their mysterious movements.
He says, first, the ply of filled with water,
which has to be deep enough to form floating ice during cold winter nights, but shallow enough to expose the rocks.
As nighttime temperatures plummet, the pond freezes to form thin sheets of window pane ice, which must be thin enough to move freely, but thick enough to maintain strength.
On sunny days, the ice begins to melt and break up into large floating panels, which light winds drive across the playa, pushing rocks in front of them, and leaving trails in the soft mud below the surface.
How crazy is that?
But it turns out that the Scripps Institute researchers weren't the first to hypothesize about floating stones.
Among the ancient rabbis, there's an idea that spraying up regarding these two instances of water from the rock.
Perhaps they theorized it was the same rock.
They thought maybe that mystical rock had
supernaturally followed Israel through their wilderness journeys.
Now the rabbis who wrote about this came a long time after the days of Paul, but some scholars suspect that they were just documenting an idea that had been talked about much earlier.
We know that Paul had been trained as a young man by the Rabbi Gamaliel, so he was thoroughly schooled in rabbinical thought.
And so it's possible Paul had been exposed to that idea, that he's using that imagery here, that there is this mystical spiritual rock following Israel through the wilderness.
Another way, though, to understand Paul's language about the rock following them is simply to see it as a poetic reference to this water from a rock experience that bookended their wilderness journey.
Start the journey.
There's a rock giving water.
Finish the journey, there's a rock again.
There's really no indication in the biblical text of any rock trailing Israel for 40 years.
In fact, it's hard to imagine the second incident would have even occurred if it had, because why would you be worried about getting water if every time you look behind you there's that rock again following you?
That would just be weird if nothing else.
What had followed them though wasn't the rock.
what had followed them was God, the one who provided for them.
And what Paul saw in those rocks was an image of Christ.
And in that water, an image of the spiritual life that we draw from Christ.
Thirst was an image Jesus often turned to in describing the spiritual condition that people so often find themselves in.
We talked about this some last week in the imagery of hunger,
the manna that they hungered for.
This gnawing sense that there is something essential that is missing.
Some ingredient for a full life that we can't find within ourselves, we can't generate on our own.
Matthew 5, 6, Jesus said, blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied.
Last week we talked about the story a bit, about the story of the woman at the well, remember?
And how Jesus met with her and they talked about water.
And I wanna just take you back there for a moment, John chapter four verses 13 through 18.
Jesus said to this woman, everyone who drinks in this water, the water at the well that he'd asked her to get him a drink from, everyone who drinks in this water will be thirsty again.
But whoever drinks in the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again.
The water I will give him will we come in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life.
The woman said to him, well, sir, give me this water so that I'll not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water.
Now you can see she's thinking in terms of physical water.
Jesus is talking about something different, right?
A spiritual water.
Jesus said to her, go call your husband and come here.
The woman answered him, I have no husband.
Jesus said to her, well, you're right in saying I have no husband for you've had five husbands.
And the one you now have is not your husband.
What you've said is true.
See, I think there's a connection between Jesus' words about unsatisfied thirst and his meddling observation about this woman's fairly checkered marital history.
What does it tell you if a woman has been married five times
and is now back in a relationship once again, just minus the official niceties of a wedding license.
I think it tells us this one believes that the thing she needs above all else is a man in her life.
And despite one failure, one heartbreak after another, she just can't stop going back to that well.
Every new romance
It fills her cup for a while, but it isn't long until things go dry and she finds herself once again looking for love.
In fact, perhaps the fact that she's now living in a common law relationship tells us that even she recognizes that the magic doesn't last.
Why bother with the hassle of planning another wedding and the pain and the expense of another divorce?
Just accept at the outset that this new relationship isn't going to last.
And so love the one you're with and be prepared to rinse and repeat.
It reminds me of some lyrics from a golden oldie.
Maybe you remember this one?
There's some little lyrics.
Darling, I can't go on without you.
This emptiness won't let me live without you.
This loneliness inside, darling, makes me feel half alive.
Baby, I need your loving.
got to have all your loving.
Do you see why to a love-addicted woman like that?
Jesus' words about an unending source of soul satisfaction would be so attractive.
In fact, Jesus didn't simply say the water he would give would satisfy her thirst.
He said it would flow through her to be a source of life to others.
Okay, at this point,
We have several loose strings laying on the table.
Let me just put them out there for you.
Three strings I wanna talk about the first is this part about Moses being in trouble.
Ends up getting in trouble for mistreating a rock, right?
He strikes rock and he's supposed to speak to it and he gets in trouble.
Says you're not gonna be able to go to the promised land because of what you've done.
The second string is that we encounter a lot of angry, thirsty people in a desert
Finding water where they least expect it from a rock.
What was that all about?
And then third, we have a New Testament writer suggesting that the rock that was following them and that is following us, that the rock is Jesus.
And what is that all about?
Well, let me take a stab at pulling them together.
String number one, why did Moses get in so much trouble for striking
the second rock.
As we've been considering all along, the lived history of Israel in the wilderness was more than just a travel log of unusual events.
Jesus and Paul and others saw a greater story being told through those wilderness wanderings.
They saw that God was weaving a tapestry that ultimately formed a picture of Jesus.
And through it, it has lessons to teach us about our walk with Jesus.
In light of that bigger picture, I think it may give some perspective as to why Moses found that striking the second stone got him in so much hot water.
If the stone represents Jesus, then do you see the significance of God telling Moses to strike the first stone with his staff?
Moses' staff had been God's instrument of judgment
against the Egyptians.
In fact, when God tells Moses to take up his staff, he specifically refers back to what Moses had done in judgment toward the Egyptian.
He goes, that's staff.
Every time Moses was commanded to raise that staff, God's judgment had fallen.
Suddenly the people, God is saved from slavery, find themselves in a desert place.
they need water to live, something they can't produce for themselves, and what's their response?
Will they begin to grumble, complain, they threaten revolt, even murder, they threaten to stone poor Moses?
How might God have responded to that?
He could have responded with judgment.
That's what they deserved.
How did God choose to respond?
Well, he told Moses to take his staff, the instrument of judgment, and rather than striking the people whom he loved, he told Moses to let the judgment fall on the rock.
In fact, isn't it interesting the Lord said that he would be standing in the very place where Moses was to strike with the rod of God's judgment?
Isn't that what Jesus did for us at the cross?
Didn't he stand in the place where God's judgment fell and take it for us?
Isaiah said it this way, surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken smitten by God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions.
He was crushed for our iniquities upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace and with his wounds we are healed.
Now it's possible that the second time Moses got in trouble, he got in trouble simply for taking matters into his own hands and for not obeying God's clear instructions.
Perhaps in that act it exposed a subtle shift in Moses' heart as a leader.
Perhaps God removed Moses from leadership because he knew that Moses was at a fork in the road, a choice between continuing to be a humble leader which had always characterized him
versus a leader who would act out of pride and anger.
Taking matter into his own hands and striking that rock was perhaps one step down a path that God knew would lead to the undoing of all the good that Moses had done.
And if so, not only would it be his undoing, but unchecked, it would lead the nation astray as well.
History has proven time and again that arrogant leaders are dangerous leaders.
Maybe that's all it was about.
However, if water from the rock was an image of Jesus that God wanted to preserve, do you see why there might have been greater significance to striking versus speaking to the rock?
The judgment Christ bore for us was completed at Calvary.
God's rod of judgment, judgment for our sins, struck.
Jesus died and his final words were, it is finished.
There's nothing more to be done.
There are a lot of Bible students who think that there is great significance when John and his gospel records what happened after Jesus had died.
You recall the Roman soldier that came to make sure that he was dead.
John 1934, one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear
and at once there came out blood and water.
Now there are good medical reasons for that soldier to have seen what appeared to be a mix of blood and water.
It's called pericardial effusion.
The stress, the trauma Jesus had endured would have caused both blood and clear liquid would look like water to pool around the heart.
But I think John also saw in that a greater spiritual reality.
In Jesus' death, we are offered life.
He was struck.
His blood paid the price.
And from him also came the spiritual water for our souls, the life that we needed.
That spiritual life is something that we've drawn for all of life.
It is available to us freely, simply for the asking.
Remember the woman at the well, looking ahead to what he knew he was going to do at Calvary, Jesus told her that the living water she truly needed was available simply for the asking.
In light of that, can you see why Moses choosing to disobey God's clear instruction might have been so offensive in God's eyes.
He was defacing a picture of Jesus.
We cannot demand grace from God.
We cannot force our way into grace.
We are simply invited to come and ask.
Okay, string number one.
String number two.
What about those angry, thirsty people?
I think it's a little easier to understand and show some grace to those folks the first time they got upset, that first time they encountered the rock out there in the wilderness.
Thirst is the most basic driver
of our human physical bodies and put thousands of people in a desert along with their livestock with no source of water in sight and no matter how many miracles they've seen, you can maybe cut them some slack for being a little anxious.
What's harder to understand is how they could end up once again in the same situation and once again be on the verge of mutiny when they already had a proven history of God's provision in the very same kind of situation.
But like I said earlier, we aren't so different.
Here's a question I would pose, and you'll have to do some self-reflection, you and the Lord together.
What are your affections in difficult times?
What do your natural desires gravitate toward to satisfy your longings when times are tough?
Does it work?
Or do you find that you keep needing to come back for more?
When I was a teen, a friend and I once took a retriever out hunting with us.
Didn't belong to either one of us, a guy that owned the dog, asked us to take his dog out hunting.
And we were hunting down at the beach, and where at the beach, the dog apparently got thirsty, ran down, and he started drinking salt water.
We kept trying to get the dog to come back and make him stop.
And you know how it goes?
The more salt water the dog drank, the thirst of the dog got sick of running back to get more salt water.
And so we spent the rest of our hunting time simply trying to get the dog out of the salt water.
Finally, my dad came to pick us up.
The dog jumped into his car, hung his head over the back seat, and promptly threw up all the salt water in my dad's car.
Now my question is, what is your salt water?
What is that thing?
What is your massage and Maribah, the thing that you get wound up and anxious and argumentative about and just feel you have to have?
Maybe like the woman at the well is romance, the next new relationship.
Maybe it's your success, your accomplishments and each accomplishment you hope is gonna make you feel truly fulfilled.
Maybe it's pornography.
You get stressed, you get lonely, and that screen is right there and it's so easy to wander into it.
Maybe it's your family.
I've known people that have turned their families into their God.
They worship at the idol of family.
Maybe it's your leisure time.
Maybe it's politics.
If you want a place to name Masah and Maraba, test and argue, that has got to be it.
What is it for you?
What is the salt water that you are tempted to go back to time and time again?
Well, string number three is the invitation to come to the rock.
Who is Jesus?
What does it mean in this desert of a world
to come to the rock.
Maybe for you, the idea of looking to Jesus to satisfy your soul sounds about as nonsensical as tapping on a rock looking for a drink of water.
You just don't see how this Christian thing could really satisfy the deep longings of your soul.
Maybe you're not sure why you're even in church this morning.
But can I just say, you are sitting near people that if you ask me to tell you their story, you'd find a lot of us that could tell you that we were once in the same place.
And yet we hit a point where we realized that the salt water was not satisfying.
And we finally went to the place that for so long, we had thought couldn't possibly satisfy us.
And we finally said, Lord, I think I need you.
And we discovered that
God's Spirit did something in us that changed us.
And it filled us in ways that we had not known before.
It satisfied the deep hunger of our souls.
Could I just challenge you, if you're in that position, not to push Jesus aside?
I'm always amazed at people who really don't give Jesus a serious consideration.
Like walking by that rock and wilderness.
Oh yeah, well that just couldn't be it.
Don't push him aside.
Jesus once said ask and it will be given to you.
Seek and you will find knock and it will be open to you.
If you never honestly turned your attention to Jesus, I would invite you to do that, to ask, to seek, to knock and to see what his response is.
Now, most of us probably have come to that first rock.
We're here on a Sunday morning because we have found life in Jesus, but like those children of Israel as time passes, it's easy to get distracted.
Scripture tells us there actually is an act of any of our souls whose goal is to deceive and distract.
He lives nothing more than to hold out something that shimmers and seems promising, but leads us astray.
Like that old hunting dog, we can start sipping on the saltwater once again, and we end up making our souls sick as a result.
Not because anything has changed about Jesus.
Not because he isn't still enough, but because we have not disciplined ourselves to turn away from the saltwater.
That's why Paul uses that imagery.
He says, it's like an athlete.
An athlete is focused on the goal.
And that means there are things that the athlete says yes to other things.
The athlete says no to.
He doesn't just flail his arms around like whatever he runs into is fine.
He's like, no, I have a goal and I am aimed for that.
I want to know Jesus and to make him known.
Here's a very practical step.
I would recommend a way to get a fresh drink.
If you want an assignment coming out of this, I would encourage you to spend time reading Matthew chapters five through seven.
That is Jesus, sermon on the Mount.
It is the longest single teaching we have directly from Jesus.
And you spend some time with that.
You soak in that.
You drink that in and it will do some things.
It will make you examine some attitudes.
It will challenge you.
It will encourage you.
Bathe in it.
Meditate on it.
Pray your way through it.
In fact, I don't often do this, but if you need some help working your way through the Sermon on the Mount, let me point you back to a couple sermon series I did a few years ago.
One of those is called Backward Blessings, and so look at the Beatitudes, the things that Jesus said brought blessing.
And then I followed that right up with one called Live Like Mountain Folk.
This is the sermon that Jesus preached to people up on the mountainside.
If you need some help just to
process and meditate your way through Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, this might help you out with that.
You see, ultimately we are what we drink.
What do we feed our souls on?
The challenge that Paul lays before us is that we drink from the rock, that we meditate on Jesus, we find our soul satisfaction in him,
Here's what the Apostle John said as part of his great revelation, the last book of the Bible, Revelation 22, 17, the spirit and the bride say, come.
Let the one who hears say, come and let the one who is thirsty, come.
Let the one who desires take the water of life without price.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus forgive us for
the salt water that we so easily turn toward.
Things that offer the illusion that they will satisfy us, and yet we come up still thirsty.
Lord, we receive your invitation this morning, the invitation to come and to drink of you.
For any who have never come to that first rock, Lord, I pray that you would
You'd awaken that thirst in them and help their eyes to see that in fact, there is life in you.
For those of us who have received that life and yet as the years have gone on, we have allowed things to distract us and things to ensnare us.
Father, help us, I pray, like that athlete to break free by your grace, by your power, to desire you, to meditate in your word,
to lift our hearts to you in prayer, to once again find that you are all that our souls truly need.
I pray this in Jesus' powerful name, amen.